1. Kahramanlığın ve Şanın İllüzyonu (Rozeti Bırakma Psikolojisi)
"When Odysseus in The Odyssey visits the famed warrior Achilles in the underworld – Achilles, who traded a long life full of peace and contentment for a short one full of honor and glory – tells Odysseus it was all a mistake. 'I just died, that’s all.' There was no honor. No immortality. And that if he could, he would choose to go back and be a lowly slave to a tenant farmer on Earth rather than be what he is – a king in the land of the dead – that whatever his struggles of life were, they were preferable to being here in this dead place."

2. Savaşın Anlamsızlığı ve Doğanın Kayıtsızlığı (Vietnam / Çatışma Bağlamı)
"All Quiet on the Western Front is a horror story. This is a book where you lose your childhood, your faith in a meaningful world, and your concern for individuals. ... Death is everywhere. Nothing else is possible. Someone will kill you and use your dead body for target practice. You’ve come to despise that older generation that sent you out into this madness, into this torture chamber. ... Then you notice the cherry blossoms, and you see that nature is unaffected by all this. Poplar trees, the red butterflies, the fragile beauty of flowers, the sun – you see how nature is indifferent to it all. All the violence and suffering of all mankind. Nature doesn’t even notice it."

3. Yorgunluk, Pişmanlık ve Hayat Yolu
"In a lot of ways, some of these same things have happened to you. You too have had drugs dropped into your wine. You too have shared a bed with the wrong woman. ... You too have come so far and have been so far blown back. And you’ve had close calls as well. ... And you too have rambled this country all around. And you’ve also felt that ill wind, the one that blows you no good."

4. Anlam Arayışından Vazgeçme (Son Aşama / Ölüm Anı)
"If a song moves you, that’s all that’s important. I don’t have to know what a song means. I’ve written all kinds of things into my songs. And I’m not going to worry about it – what it all means."